# The Benefits of using Docker

Traditionally, development is done on a physical computer without any definitive resource or application boundaries. The problems with this approach become imminent when the application is about to be shared or deployed. Applications usually depend on other binaries and libraries which might be different from one machine to another, so a solution must be made to easily pack all the dependables with the application itself.

Docker resolves this issue by packing all the needed files in a container. These containers can then be easily swapped from a machine to another and they work just as well in there as they did on the development machine. Additionally, when deploying the app, the Docker container can contain only whats necessary to run the app instead of whole OS's and programs that aren't necessary anymore. This significantly reduces size of the application when deploying on a server. Docker is also secure, as nothing but the app is running on one single container so information about other applications running on the server cannot be accessed inside the container, the application in the container can also be made to be run as non-root user which further increases security. Apps running on Docker are highly efficient and dense, and the containers themselves can be set to scale and self-heal automatically when in production. 

The benefits of Docker aren't limited to deployment and production only. When using Docker as a developer you make sure than other developers have exactly the same development environment as you do. You can also easily rollback to earlier versions of the application thanks to the immutability of Docker images. You don't have to worry about the operations side of development that much anymore as Docker separates the concerns effectively, the containers you build can be run on the cloud with ease. 
